# System Workflow
This document discusssed how the system is used. There are mainly two roles that occupy this system, staff and client or the citizen. 

## Roles

### Client
Clients, or citizens, are users of the system who are availing or requesting funeral assistances from CSWDO. They are not generated by registering an account to the system. They are generated by accessing the system via the *TLC Portal*.

### Staff
CSWDO personnel and the superadmin possess the *staff* role. Both in context and in the system. Staffs can access the system via the login page. At first, the superadmin is created to allow them to create additional staff or users in the system.

The flows of the system are identified or ordered using this format:
- x = Capital Letter = Role
- x.x = Number = Flow
- x.x.x = Letter = Inner flow
Below each flow are the steps indicated by numbers.

## A. Client/Citizen Flows

### A.1. Accessing the System
1. Access the TLC Portal and login
2. Navigate through the services and click on the card that says "Apply for Funeral Assistance"

### A.2. Applying as Client
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Citizens will be prompted to confirm the submitted information
3. After filling out the form, they receive a notification or SMS regarding a scheduled appointment interview
4. Citizens have to attend to the interview for the staff to assess and recommend them a service

### A.3. Checking Client History
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Access the dashboard using the sidebar to access the quick links. The Client History link will be disabled if the client does not have any history or applications. Or use the sidebar to navigate to it by going to the records menu.

### A.4. Checking Interview History
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Access the dashboard using the sidebar to access the quick links. The Interview link will be disabled if the client does not have any interview history. Or use the sidebar to navigate to it by going to the records menu.

### A.5. Checking Beneficiaries
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Access the dashboard using the sidebar to access the quick links. The Beneficiary link will be disabled if the client does not have any history of applying as a client. Or use the sidebar to navigate to it by going to the records menu.

### A.6. Checking Referrals
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Access the dashboard using the sidebar to access the quick links. The Referrals link will be disabled if the client does not have any history of referrals. Or use the sidebar to navigate to it by going to the records menu.

### A.7. Checking Burial Assistances
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Access the dashboard using the sidebar to access the quick links. The Burial Assistances link will be disabled if the client does not have any history of burial assistances. Or use the sidebar to navigate to it by going to the records menu.

### A.8. Checking Libreng Libing
1. Go through flow A.1
2. Access the dashboard using the sidebar to access the quick links. The Libreng Libing link will be disabled if the client does not have any history of libreng libing. Or use the sidebar to navigate to it by going to the records menu.

## B. Staff Flows

### B.1. Accessing the System
1. Access the system by entering the system's URL with `/login` at the end
2. Input the credentials created for them or provided by the superadmin
Once logged in, the staff can proceed with the proceeding flows. All of the flows listed below will require this flow.

### B.2. Display the Clients of the System
1. Go through flow B.1.
2. List of clients are displayed in their dashboard. It is also displayed in the clients page accessible via the sidebar under the records hover menu.

### B.3. Display one Client Record
1. Go through flow B.2.
2. Click on the eye icon shown in the same row as the target client inside the table in the page. This will redirect them to the client record

### B.4. Scheduling an Interview for a Client
1. Go through flow B.3.
3. On the top portion of the page, a menu bar is shown. Click on the `Schedule an Interview` button to open the menu
4. Provide the time and date of the schedule before submitting
5. Upon submission, this will notify the user via TLC Portal notification, system notification, and SMS

### B.5. Generating a GIS for a Client
1. Go through flow B.3.
2. On the top portion of the page, a menu bar is shown. Click on the `Generate GIS Form` button to generate the PDF copy of their GIS Form
3. A new tab will open in the browser showing a preview of the GIS Form in PDF.
**Note:** Some portions of the field are blank, e.g. recommended service, mode of assistance, referral, etc. This fields will be filled out once the client's application is further processed.

### B.6. Creating an Assessment for a Client
Assuming the client has attended the scheduled interview, the staff can proceed with creating an assessment for the client.
1. Go through flow B.3.
2. On the top portion of the page, a menu bar is shown. Click on the `Write an Assessment` button to open the form for inputting the assessment
3. Once done, submit the form. This will allow the staff to either recommend a service or create a referral.

### B.7. Creating a Referral for a Client
Assuming the client has attended the scheduled interview, the staff can proceed with creating an assessment for the client.
1. Go through flow B.3.
2. On the top portion of the page, a menu bar is shown. Click on the `Referral` button to open the referral form.
3. This form will require the name of where the client will be referred to and the reason for referral
Once the client has given a referral, their application can no longer be recommended to the department's services. Because this marks that the client's concerns mentioned during the assessment are out of the department's scope of services. If it was a mistake, the client must apply once again.

### B.8. Recommending a service for a Client
1. Go through flow B.3.
2. On the top portion of the page, a menu bar is shown. Click on the `Recommend a Service` button to open the recommendation form.
3. The first field shows a selection between *Burial Assistance* and *Libreng Libing*. This will change the form's contents.
*Burial Assistance* involves releasing checks and financial support for the beneficiary's (the beneficiary is the deceased person) burial. *Libreng Libing* involves burying the deceased to public Taguig City cemeteries
4. Submit once the form is fully filled out.
After submission, this will create a burial assistance application or libreng libing application accessible via the sidebar.

### B.9. Burial Assistance Flow
1. Go to `/burial` by using the sidebar. It is under the records button. Then the link is labeled `Burial Assistances`
2. The index or table of applications will be shown. Click the eye icon of the desired or target client to provide updates to or process the application located on the same row as the client in the table.
3. The burial assistance application's page will show a menu bar, timeline, and a form for changing claimants. 
4. Provide updates by clicking the `Add Progress Update` button and fill out the form it will display
It will take 13 steps (as of May 18, 2026) to finish the application. 

During the application, the client may request a change of claimants. For this, the new claimant must be an existing client in the system. Or one that has applied before. This is to ensure accountability with the client.
#### B.9.1. Changing claimants
1. Go through flow B.9.
2. Scroll below to fill out the claimant change form. Only previous clients will be displayed in the selection.
3. Upon submission, the claimants will change to the new claimant. Future updates to the application will be correlated to the new claimant. Meaning, the old claimant will not be assigned as the claimant of the assistance's check.
**Warning:** This cannot be undone. This has been set up to automatically approve all claimant changes. It can be reverted back.

#### B.9.2. Generating Certificate
1. Go through flow B.9.
2. Click the `View Certificate` button to open a new tab for the certificate's PDF viewer

#### B.9.3. Exporting Applications
1. Go through flow B.9.
2. Scroll down until the button `Export Database to Excel` is visible.
3. Click the button to download the Excel file where burial assistance applications are encoded in

### B.10. Libreng Libing Flow
1. Go to `/funeral` by using the sidebar. It is under the records button. Then the link is labeled `Libreng Libing`
2. The index or table of Libreng Libing applications will be shown. Click on the eye icon of the target application located on the same row as the application in the table.
3. A menu bar will be shown above with the certificate button, client record (redirects to the application's client record), and either `Approved` or `Forwarded`
4. Click on `Approved` if the application has been approved. Click on `Fowarded` to mark the application as forwarded to the cemetery staff.

#### B.10.1
1. Go to `/funeral` by using the sidebar. It is under the records button. Then the link is labeled `Libreng Libing`
2. The index or table of Libreng Libing applications will be shown. Click on the eye icon of the target application located on the same row as the application in the table.
3. A menu bar will be shown above with the certificate button, client record (redirects to the application's client record), and either `Approved` or `Forwarded`
4. Click the `View Certificate` button to open the PDF Viewer for the certificate

### B.11 Reporting
1. Clients, Beneficiaries, Burial Assistances, Libreng Libing, and Checks can be exported into reports in PDF format. To generate a report for any, refer to the sidebar and hover over the reports button. Then click on which to generate a report of.
2. By default, it will filter records of data from within the current year. Use the filter menu on the top portion of the page to choose the date range. There are three preset filter buttons, current year, previous month, and current month.
3. To export the filtered data, scroll to the bottom and click the `Export all to PDF` button to view the PDF viewer of the report on a separate tab.